FT-CDSS Experimental Setup and Measurement Protocol
__________________________________________________________

Purpose
-------
This document describes the hardware and software environment, multiprocessing configuration, queue-based communication, CPU settings, warm-up procedure, timing boundaries, thermal conditions, and energy-measurement protocol used for the experiments reported in the manuscript.


1. Hardware and Operating-System Environment
--------------------------------------------

The end-to-end pipeline and performance experiments were executed on a
Raspberry Pi 4 Model B with a 64-bit ARM (aarch64) architecture and four CPU
cores.

Operating-system environment:
- Operating system: Linux 6.12.47+rpt-rpi-v8
- Architecture: aarch64
- Python: 3.13.5
- PyTorch: 2.9.1+cpu
- CUDA: Not available

The quantized neural-network models were executed on the CPU using the
QNNPACK backend.


2. Multiprocessing Topology
---------------------------

The end-to-end CDSS pipeline uses Python multiprocessing to execute the diagnostic units concurrently.

When the modality classifier is enabled, the process topology is:

- Core 0: modality classifier / routing process
- Core 1: Colon diagnosis process
- Core 2: MRI diagnosis process
- Core 3: X-ray diagnosis process

The classifier receives the mixed test workload and predicts the modality of each image. The image path is then routed to the corresponding diagnostic
unit. The three diagnostic processes execute their assigned models independently and concurrently.

For the baseline, DMR, TMR, and Hybrid configurations, the corresponding TorchScript model is loaded by each diagnosis process. The same multiprocessing 
structure is used for the evaluated configurations.


3. Queue Configuration and Inter-Process Communication
-------------------------------------------------------

Communication between processes is implemented using Python
multiprocessing.Queue objects.

Four queues are used:

- Colon queue: receives image paths routed to the Colon diagnosis process.
- MRI queue: receives image paths routed to the MRI diagnosis process.
- X-ray queue: receives image paths routed to the X-ray diagnosis process.
- Result queue: receives the prediction/result generated by the diagnosis
  processes.

The classifier places each image path into the queue corresponding to the predicted modality. Each diagnosis process retrieves image paths from its
own queue, performs image preprocessing and model inference, and places the result into the shared result queue.

A None sentinel is inserted into each diagnosis queue after all images have been routed. This indicates that no additional images remain in that queue.

The pipeline therefore uses message passing through queues rather than shared memory for transferring image paths and prediction results.


4. Process Affinity and CPU Thread Settings
-------------------------------------------

CPU affinity is explicitly configured using psutil.Process().cpu_affinity().

The process-to-core assignment is:

- Classifier: CPU core 0
- Colon diagnosis: CPU core 1
- MRI diagnosis: CPU core 2
- X-ray diagnosis: CPU core 3

Each diagnosis process is configured using:

    torch.set_num_threads(1)

This limits intra-process PyTorch CPU threading to one thread for each diagnosis process. The four-core topology therefore allows the three 
diagnosis processes and the classifier/routing process to operate on separate CPU cores.

The quantized models use the QNNPACK backend:

    torch.backends.quantized.engine = "qnnpack"

All diagnostic model inference is performed on the CPU.


5. Warm-Up Procedure
--------------------

Before recording the reported pipeline timing measurements, one complete execution of the corresponding workload is performed as a warm-up run.

The timing results from the first complete execution are discarded. The subsequent complete execution is used for the reported timing measurements.

This procedure is applied to allow the complete execution pipeline to reach a stable operating state before the timing results are recorded.

The warm-up is performed at the workload level rather than as a separate single-image inference. Thus, the classifier/routing process, multiprocessing
pipeline, queue communication, model execution, and result collection are exercised during the warm-up execution.


6. Timing Boundaries
--------------------

The end-to-end timing measurements follow the implementation in
Pipeline.py.

For experiments using the modality classifier, the diagnosis processes are started first. The timer is then started immediately before the classifier
process is started. The timer remains active while images are classified and routed through the queues, processed by the corresponding diagnosis units,
and returned through the result queue.

For experiments without the classifier, the timer is started before the image paths are inserted into the diagnosis queues.

The timer is stopped after the expected number of results, corresponding to all images in the workload, has been received from the result queue.

Therefore, the reported end-to-end pipeline time includes the relevant routing/queue communication, diagnostic processing, and result collection
overhead. When the classifier is enabled, classifier processing is also included in the measured interval.

The timing reported for the end-to-end pipeline is distinct from the standalone model inference timing used for the energy calculations in Table 4.

For workload-scaling measurements, execution times are also recorded at the
following milestones:

- 1 image
- 10 images
- 100 images
- 500 images
- 1000 images
- 1500 images
- 2010 images

Average time per image is calculated as:

    Average time/image = Total execution time / Number of images


7. Thermal Conditions
---------------------

The experiments were conducted on the Raspberry Pi using the same hardware and software configuration described in this document.

No separate thermal-control or temperature-conditioning procedure was applied during the experiments, and no fixed ambient-temperature value was
assumed for the reported results.

The experimental results therefore reflect the operating conditions of the Raspberry Pi during the measurement sessions rather than a separately
controlled thermal environment.


8. Energy-Measurement Protocol
------------------------------

Energy measurements reported in Table 4 were obtained using an external KWS-066C USB Type-C USB Tester during execution of the corresponding
configurations.

An external power measurement device was used because the Raspberry Pi does not provide a built-in, directly accessible power-consumption measurement
mechanism suitable for directly measuring the total power consumption of the experimental setup.

For each configuration and dataset, ten power measurements were recorded. 
The average of these measurements was used as the average power consumption.

The energy value was calculated using:

    Energy = Average power x Average inference time per image

The measurements were performed using the complete test workloads for the
Colon, MRI, and X-ray datasets.

The raw power measurements, average power values, inference times, and resulting energy calculations are provided in the Table 4 experimental log
in the repository (FT-CDSS/Results/Table 4).

The energy measurement procedure is intended to provide the measured power and corresponding energy consumption of the Raspberry Pi execution setup
under the evaluated workloads.


NOTES
-----

The implementation of the multiprocessing pipeline is provided in Pipeline.py. The experimental logs associated with the reported tables and
figures are provided in the Results directory.

This document should be read together with Pipeline.py and the corresponding experimental logs to reproduce the execution topology, timing procedure,
and measurement conditions used in the reported experiments.
